# Links to Microsoft Docs content for DP-900 exam

## Objective: Describe core data concepts (15-20%)

Describe types of core data workloads

•	Describe batch data
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/data-guide/technology-choices/batch-processing

•	Describe streaming data
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/implement-data-streaming-with-asa/

•	Describe the difference between batch and streaming data
https://thenewstack.io/the-big-data-debate-batch-processing-vs-streaming-processing/

•	Describe the characteristics of relational data
https://binaryterms.com/relational-data-model.html

Describe data analytics core concepts

•	Describe data visualization (e.g., visualization, reporting, business intelligence
https://www.tableau.com/learn/articles/data-visualization

•	Describe basic chart types such as bar charts and pie charts
https://chartio.com/learn/charts/how-to-choose-pie-chart-vs-bar-chart/

•	Describe analytics techniques (e.g., descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, prescriptive,
cognitive)
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/data-analytics.asp#:~:text=Data%20analytics%20is%20the%20science,raw%20data%20for%20human%20consumption.

•	Describe ELT and ETL processing
https://www.xplenty.com/blog/etl-vs-elt/#:~:text=ETL%20is%20Extract%2C%20Transform%20and,No%20data%20staging%20is%20needed.

•	Describe the concepts of data processing
https://www.mbaknol.com/management-information-systems/concept-of-data-processing/

## Objective: Describe how to work with relational data on Azure (25-30%)

Describe relational data workloads

•	Identify the right data offering for a relational workload
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-overview

•	Describe relational data structures (e.g., tables, index, views)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-overview

Describe relational Azure data services

•	Describe and compare PaaS, IaaS, and SaaS delivery models
https://www.nigelfrank.com/blog/iaas-vs-saas-vs-paas-a-guide-to-azure-cloud-service-types/

•	Describe Azure SQL Database
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/sql-database/#product-overview

•	Describe Azure Synapse Analytics
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/synapse-analytics/

•	Describe SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machine
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/virtual-machines/sql-server/#overview

•	Describe Azure Database for PostgreSQL, Azure Database for MariaDB, and Azure Database for MySQL
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/postgresql/

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/mariadb/

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/mysql/#product-overview

•	Describe Azure SQL Managed Instance
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/managed-instance/sql-managed-instance-paas-overview

Identify basic management tasks for relational data

•	Describe provisioning and deployment of relational data services
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/azure-sql/database/sql-database-paas-overview

•	Describe method for deployment including ARM templates and Azure Portal
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/arm-templates-content-guide?tabs=single-database

•	Identify data security components (e.g., firewall, authentication)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/secure-database-tutorial

•	Identify basic connectivity issues (e.g., accessing from on-premises, access with Azure
VNets, access from Internet, authentication, firewalls)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/troubleshoot-common-errors-issues

•	Identify query tools (e.g., Azure Data Studio, SQL Server Management Studio, sqlcmd
utility, etc.)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/database/connect-query-ssms

Describe query techniques for data using SQL language

•	Compare DDL versus DML
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-ddl-and-dml-in-dbms/

•	Query relational data in PostgreSQL, MySQL, and Azure SQL Database
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/blog/fast-and-easy-dev-with-azure-db-for-mysql-and-azuredb-for-postgresql/

## Objective: Describe how to work with non-relational data on Azure (25-30%)

Describe non-relational data workloads

•	Describe the characteristics of non-relational data
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/data-guide/big-data/non-relational-data

•	Describe the types of non-relational and NoSQL data
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/data-guide/big-data/non-relational-data

•	Recommend the correct data store

•	Determine when to use non-relational data
https://www.pluralsight.com/blog/software-development/relational-non-relational-databases

Describe non-relational data offerings on Azure

•	Identify Azure data services for non-relational workloads
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/data-store-overview

•	Describe Azure Cosmos DB APIs
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/choose-api-for-cosmos-db/

•	Describe Azure Table storage
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/storage/tables/

•	Describe Azure Blob storage
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/storage/blobs/

•	Describe Azure File storage
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/storage/files/

Identify basic management tasks for non-relational data

•	Describe provisioning and deployment of non-relational data services
https://www.edx.org/course/databases-in-azure

•	Describe method for deployment including ARM templates and Azure Portal
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/manage-table-with-resource-manager

•	Identify data security components (e.g., firewall, authentication)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/database-security

•	Identify basic connectivity issues (e.g., accessing from on-premises, access with Azure
VNets, access from Internet, authentication, firewalls)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/troubleshoot-dot-net-sdk

•	Identify management tools for non-relational data
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/overview/nosql-database/

## Objective: Describe an analytics workload on Azure (25-30%)

Describe analytics workloads

•	Describe transactional workloads
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/analytical-store-introduction

•	Describe the difference between a transactional and an analytics workload

•	Describe the difference between batch and real time

•	Describe data warehousing workloads
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/updates/workload-importance-for-azure-sql-data-warehouse-is-now-generally-available/

•	Determine when a data warehouse solution is needed

Describe the components of a modern data warehouse

•	Describe Azure data services for modern data warehousing such as Azure Data Lake,
Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Databricks, and Azure HDInsight
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/solutions/data-lake/

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/synapse-analytics/

https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/databricks/

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/hdinsight/

•	Describe modern data warehousing architecture and workload

Describe data ingestion and processing on Azure

•	Describe common practices for data loading
https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/datacat/azure-sql-data-warehouse-loading-patterns-and-strategies/ba-p/305456

•	Describe the components of Azure Data Factory (e.g., pipeline, activities, etc.)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UQpAZVrRrzs#:~:text=some%20of%20the%20high%2Dlevel,ultimate%20end%20product%20for%20consumption.

•	Describe data processing options (e.g., HDI, Azure Databricks, Azure Synapse Analytics,
Azure Data Factory)
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/data-guide/technology-choices/data-storage

Describe data visualization in Microsoft Power BI

•	Describe the role of paginated reporting
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/paginated-reports/paginated-reports-report-builder-power-bi

•	Describe the role of interactive reports
https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/desktop/#:~:text=Create%20interactive%20reports%20customized%20for,open%20source%20custom%20visuals%20framework.

•	Describe the role of dashboards
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/create-reports/service-dashboards

•	Describe the workflow in Power BI
https://curbal.com/blog/lesson/power-bi-workflow


